---
layout: post
title: "Growing Together with Home"
description: "A year 1 academic piece"
date: 2017.04.18
feature_image: 
tags: [personal reflections]
---

It was just another typical late night in the studio. My friends and I were in McDonalds to end our dinner fast before heading back for the grind. Suddenly, one of my Singaporean friends’ phone rang which resulted in him hurriedly leaving while gesturing that he will be back soon. Ten minutes later, he was back with a well-loved metal thermal flask and a dainty cardboard box from a bakery. <!--more--> He had a delivery from home. Generously, he offered me the food that his mother had just handed him. Shamelessly, I took it. I unscrewed the cap of the thermal flask and instantly, the familiar smell of white fungus soup hit me. Using the metal spoon that was thoughtfully delivered along with the thermos, I scooped a few times to get a spoonful of hot soup because the soup was so full of ingredients that they slip off the spoon. I thought to myself that it must be a home-cooked soup because no shop is ever so generous and true enough it is, as my friend confirmed. After a few sips of the soup, I returned the thermal flask and moved on to the bakery box. Inside the box, there was only one croissant left with four missing judging from the marks on the box. I smiled to myself while thinking that it must feel so good to have your family remember you even when you are not around. Rest assured, I left the croissant alone and thanked my friend. At that point of time, I was desperately trying to hold back my tears because the hot soup and the last croissant had triggered me to miss home. 

Home is 715km away from Singapore where my university is. Home has been roughly 715km away since three years ago when I came to Singapore to study. I normally do not miss home. I enjoy the financial freedom I have. I also enjoy having complete freedom over my own schedule. But when I do miss home, I feel like a car just drove onto me. My breath is knocked out of my lungs. My mind is completely taken by surprise. I am overpowered as my heart squeezes too tightly with longing. Just as how I felt that moment after my friend shared his meal delivered from home. Silently, I took out my phone, swiped two times to the right and voila, home appeared before me. 

I must confess that I exaggerate. What appeared before me were just photos of my home. They were photos of my extended family in our house during Chinese New Year as well as of my nuclear family in front of a cinema. Looking at those photos, I instantly felt worse in my longing for home just like the other times that I relied on these photos to combat homesickness. I realised that I have once again forgotten the exact details of my father’s smile. I realised that I no longer remember the mischievous glint in my younger brother’s eyes. I felt guilty because it is as if I have forgotten about home too but slowly, the memories started coming back to me. I remembered the last holiday I spent at home doing nothing and feeling not a worry in the world. I thought fondly of my mother’s concerned face over knowing that I stay up late so often. These memories warmed my heart as they brought even more tears to my eyes. As I recall the memories of home using the virtual photos, I felt almost at home. Home is my anchor. It is the sanctuary behind me that gives me the courage to brave the world, the foundation upon which all my endeavours are made possible and the eternal spring of love that nourishes me. 

However, after that momentary burst of happiness of feeling almost at home, I started growing dissatisfied. What I have in my hands are virtual photos that I cannot even hold. They painfully remind me that I am away from home. I am unable to participate in the formation of new memories, to go through important changes together with my family or simply to be at home now. Home is growing without me even though I am part of it. I fear that the longer I am away from home, the smaller will my presence there be. To make things worse, I am growing without home as well. Since leaving home, I have been challenged by the unfamiliar environment to change. The experience has shaped me into someone different but every time I go home, I fall into old modes of communication. My parents perceive me as the old me that they remember from the last holiday. I am frustrated because I cannot tell them how my experiences have changed me. I cannot open myself up and show them that I am different from the me that last passed through the door of my home. It pains me that every time I step through that door, I feel like I am leaving a world of new me at the doorstep. I feel less complete because I cannot be fully me at home. The latest version of home holds on to an obsolete version of me while the latest version of me only knows of an outdated version of home. Little by little, home and I are growing less compatible as we are both growing without each other. 

For quite some time, I believed that home is growing in the way that I have described it until I encountered Paul C. Adams’ writing on the growth of the self. In The Boundless Self, he claims that humans occupy both physical space and virtual space. He describes physical space as a single space and time while he explains that humans inhabit virtual space by recollecting the past and anticipating the future. To him, the “intricate path a life has etched through space” gives rise to identity (11-12). In other words, humans grow by carving paths through space and time. The same idea for growth can be applied to home. Home which is typically grounded in a house occupies physical space but it also occupies virtual space as the occupants of home reminisce about past days in a grandmother’s house or anticipate the birth of a new child. Home is a product of all these experiences in different spaces and times. The path of home through space and time is, in simplistic terms, the sum of the path of a family through space and time. 

Reflecting on the path that my home has carved or will carve through space and time, I realise that my home grows in stages which closely follows my own growth. When I was young, my home consisted of a young couple living with their parents while raising a few children among which is me. Now, as these children step into adulthood, my home is momentarily like an empty nest. In the future, my home will experience the death of my grandparents, potential marriage of my siblings and me as well as the potential arrival of grandchildren. Then, my parents will retire while (assuming that I marry and have children) I become part of the young couple that my parents initially were. After that, I will retire and become the grandparent. My home will grow and age as I will because our paths through space and time are connected. My home will also grow according to the experiences that my family members and I create. I was wrong in my previous thinking that home and I are growing apart when we are actually undergoing a transitional period in our growth as children turn into adults. Home and I are growing together.  

I realised that part of my misconception about home and I growing apart came from John Ruskin, a revolutionary 19th century writer. In an excerpt from his influential book, Sesame and Lilies, which helped redefine the modern role of woman, he illustrates only part of the growth cycle of home. He describes the home as consisting of husband and wife only with no mentions of grandparents and children (121). The excerpt also paints a picture of a home so safe from the outside world that it seems static with no continuity through time and no extensibility through space. The picture was misleading for me as I was just beginning to grapple with the complexity of home even though it was appropriate for his purpose of promoting the rethinking of the role of a woman. Ruskin made home seemed like a constant that does not evolve according to circumstances. This picture coupled with my own insecurities about being away from home led me to the false perception that home and I are growing apart. 

However, my current perception of my growing home terrifies me even more. I can only move forward in the relentless march of time regardless of how I feel. I accept the current stage of life that I am in but I fear the implications that it has on my home. As I grow in strength, my parents will grow old while my grandparents become even weaker. Sometimes I morbidly feel like I am just waiting for that inevitable moment when I will lose them. I do not want to move on to the next stage of my life and to accept the next stage of home because there are people who I simply do not want to let go of, there are people who I wish will be forever strong. I am afraid of losing: losing memories, the version of home I had as a child and the people I love. To me, growing means that I have to lose while a growing home will have its losses. 

When I look at the virtual photos in my phone now, I recognise them as tools to fool myself into thinking that this growth of me and home is not happening because photos of home are a particular version of home frozen in a single frame of space and time. The virtual nature of the photos makes it easy for me to access a particular version of home that I am most nostalgic about. Desperately blinking away my tears, I looked at the photos and recalled fond memories that transported me to the version of home that I was most homesick for. As I allowed the photos to pacify me, I redrew the red line around the thoughts of me growing together with home before re-joining the conversation with my friends as if nothing happened. I prefer not to think about home growing with losses and me over time. I prefer holding in my heart all of home, all of me and always the people I love.  

***

**Works Cited**

Adams, Paul C. “The World of the Extensible Self,” The Boundless Self: Communication in Physical and Virtual Space (Syracuse, NY: Syracuse University Press, 2005): 1-24.

Ruskin, John. Sesame and Lilies. Ed. Deborah Epstein Nord. (New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2002): 121. 


