---
layout: post
title: "Guan Yinised Space: Analysing Kwan Im Thong Hood Cho Temple through LeFebvre's Theory on the Production of Space"
description: "A year 4 academic piece"
date: 2019-11-16
feature_image: 
tags: [nerdnerdnerd]
---

Partly an academic exercise of applying LeFebvre’s elegant theory on the production of space to analyse a place, partly a reflection and verbalisation of my own Taoist practices and understanding, this piece aims to explore Kwan Im Thong Hood Cho Temple as a social space that is a social product. In other words, what does the temple mean as a space to people? What is the temple as a space?

<!--more--> 

The spatial practices surrounding the temple is obvious and easy to spot. There is a ritual of praying within the temple that starts with devotees flocking to the temple from all over Singapore (among those interviewed, they hail from Tao Payoh, Ang Mo Kio, Sembawang and more), continues with the never ending burning of joss sticks at the entrance of the temple, the deafening noise of devotees shaking the lot holder in the centre of the prayer hall, the frenzy of devotees offering flowers, longevity peaches and more at the front altar, ending with devotees waiting whether sitting or standing at the side of the temple before an exit. Outside the temple along Waterloo streets, there are devotees opting for vegetarians meals after visiting the temple at nearby establishments (the coffeeshop opposite, Fortune Centre nearby) or doing grocery shopping for prayer accessories at the array of shops nearby which cater to the religious needs of devotees visiting the temple. As observed these spatial practices occur at three different scales: in the temple, across Waterloo street and across Singapore. 

It is a misconception to think of it as the temple resulting in these spatial practices as I have been correctly schooled by the vegetarian stall uncle in Fortune Centre, rather it is Guan Yin, the deity who resides in the temple, that is affecting these spatial practices. The temple physically then loses its relevance as the spatial centre of our analysis while Waterloo Street loses its relevance as the spatial boundary of our analysis. Rather any space at any scale has the potential to be ‘Guan Yinised’. A Guan Yinised space is a space in which an individual’s relationship with Guan Yin is the predominant driver of one’s spatial practice in that space. In such a space, the boundary and the centre are irrelevant, but Her presence in one’s mind or heart that does not diminish in accordance with spatial scale is the key. Every spatial act is a complex act that is both giving and taking simultaneously. Offering flowers, eating vegetarian, donating money, visiting the temple personally are seen as acts of sincerity towards Guan Yin. It is believed that every act of sincerity will be acknowledged and ‘returned’ with blessings by Guan Yin. Hence, the path from a devotee’s house to the temple can be said to be a temporarily Guan Yinised space because the devotee wishes to visit the temple to receive advice from Guan Yin in the form of lots which is a signature of the temple. The temple is perpetually Guan Yinised because Guan Yin is there. When the vegetarian stall uncle in Fortune Centre schools me on how to correctly think about the issue at hand, the space around us is Guan Yinised as he feels compelled to act as a spokesperson for Guan Yin, to educate on correct mindsets and her teaching. 

Although I have no qualms referring to these spatial acts of sincerity as spatial practices, I would not label this relationship between the individual and Guan Yin as representational space. Firstly, the relationship drives these spatial practices while representational space does not necessarily do so with spatial practices in LeFebvre’s framework. Secondly, the relationship is not just “symbolic”, not just “lived through its associated images and symbols”. They are real to the devotees. Guan Yin does not just “overlays physical space, making symbolic use of its objects”.  She exists in physical space and directly impacts objects. To explain this oddity, it is necessary to introduce Goh’s understanding of the Taoist religion as “it is”: how Taoist deities and practices are deeply accepted as reality. They are not representational or as lived. They are perceived plainly without doubts of their Truth. They are. “It is.” This understanding also helps explain why LeFebvre’s theory on social space as a social product can be applied to a religious space that is supposed to be a reserved space to LeFebvre. Embedded in reality, this supposed religious space can be analysed like other spaces which are socially produced by the people. One need not “pass the test” in these reserved spaces to gain acceptance into the social spaces locked behind them. Rather, Guan Yinised space is a product of the relationship between people and Guan Yin in accordance with LeFebvre’s proposition that “(social) space is a (social) product”. 

Guan Yin is also known for her philanthropic acts (sponsoring a dialysis centre for NKH, building an auditorium in NUS, a library in NAFA, providing scholarships and much more). From a reductionist point of view, the committee acted on Her behalf, based on Her teachings, with Her money to do good.  In its totality, these are Guan Yin’s spatial practices, Her Guan Yinising places without devotees as the other end of the subject, Her carving out space for herself in places other than the temple. I understand these spaces to be Guan Yinised as well because regardless of whether one is a devotee, a relationship is established between one and Guan Yin through such places. This understanding implies that in Guan Yinised space, there is no distinction of representational space and representations of space, everything is a spatial practice that is affected by Her. But the state turns these spaces that are Guan Yinised through philanthropy into abstract space in the name of secularism. Guan Yin is forcefully reduced to ‘Kwan Im Thong Hood Cho Temple’ as the subject of these philanthropic acts. Another way to understand this phenomenon is that the reduction of Guan Yin to Her temple is a type of representation of Guan Yinised space by the state. But I reject this interpretation because this reduction “erases distinctions” more than it being a “sign” or a “code” to understanding Guan Yinised space. 
