---
layout: post
title: "Thoughts after Reading Kim by Rudyard Kipling"
description: "Kim is life-changing"
date: 2022-1-01
feature_image: images/kim.jpg
tags: [book review]
---

<!--more-->

I remember the shock I felt at how true Austen’s critique rang within me when I first read *Pride and Prejudice*. I was swept away by her deep insights on the human condition. I came to believe that books are only as great as the grandness of their insight that hits you with an “oh my, that is so true but I have never thought of it.” Based on the books I have read of a similar nature, I came to value critical thinking, analysis and insights more and more. We all experience the same reality; hence, it is the post-processing of that reality, the dissection of how we perceive that reality that is of value. I want books to teach me how to interpret the world around me because experiencing reality as it is raw and unprocessed is not a well-examined and well-led life. 

The end result of my over-emphasis on analysis is that I end up living increasingly “in my mind”. The experience is akin to experiencing a city from the interiors of a bus. You see the rain and sun fall on the glass panes, you hear the laughter and the noise through the glass pane, you travel through the city on the bus but you never get to feel the wind on your skin or the light on your eyelids, you never get to dodge and weave through that tapestry of sound to become part of it too, you never get to feel the tar, the cobblestone, the grass, the leaves under your shoes. You never get to live as if your consciousness has been pounded with a tenderiser until it is thin enough to cover all surfaces of your body such that you live “on your skin”. *Kim* is a book that fully affirmed my increasing suspicion over the years that living “on your skin” is a beautiful way to live life. The sight, the smell, the people that you meet, the conversations that you have, the experiences that you live through should flow over you as hot water does, relaxing every pore, allowing that heat to slowly permeate into the deepest corners of your being so that they can keep you warm whenever life gets cold. There need not be insight nor analysis, just pure appreciation for raw, unprocessed reality that is already as beautiful as anything can be. Kim beseeches me to get out of the bus, to abandon its comfort, speed, order and protection, to throw myself into the chaos of the city. It whispers lovingly, just be, being is living enough. It is such an earnest book. I would read slower so that it can last longer. But when the end comes as it has to, I am filled with only appreciation of life or as it is otherwise called, love. 


